# Incident: 2024-12-04 19-47-00

## Summary

Between the hour of 19:34 and 19:47 on 2024-12-04, users encountered a 500 error when trying to order pizza. The event was triggered by a failure of the jwt pizza factory to create pizzas due to a chaos test. The pizza factory would return 500 errors to any request and that caused the users of JWT pizza to be unable to purchase pizzas.
The event was detected by the Grafana alert that was triggered by any failures to create pizzas. The team started working on the event by testing the pizza factory and finding that it was returning 500 errors. By calling the report url provided by the pizza factory, the issue was resolved and the factory began producing pizzas normally. 
This incident affected 100% of users.

## Detection


This incident was detected when the Purchases alert was triggered and the JWT Pizza team was paged. Because the slack integration was not installed, a mobile alert was sent, adding one minute to the response time.
Slack integration will be installed to improve the response time by a minute or more.

## Impact

Describe how the incident impacted internal and external users during the incident. Include how many support cases were raised.

For 13 minutes between 19:34 UTC and 19:47 UTC on 12/04/24, pizzas were unable to be created and our users experienced this incident.

This incident affected 1 customer, (100% OF PIZZA ORDERING USERS), who experienced an inability to purchase pizza.

0 support tickets and 0 social media posts were submitted.


## Timeline

Detail the incident timeline. We recommend using UTC to standardize for timezones.

Include any notable lead-up events, any starts of activity, the first known impact, and escalations. Note any decisions or changed made, and when the incident ended, along with any post-impact events of note.

All times are UTC.

- _19:34_ - Pizza factory begins returning 500 errors
- _19:34_ - Grafana alert triggered
- _19:34_ - JWT Pizza team paged
- _19:35_ - JWT Pizza team begins investigating
- _19:40_ - JWT Pizza team finds that the pizza factory is returning 500 errors
- _19:45_ - JWT Pizza team calls the report url provided by the pizza factory
- _19:47_ - Pizza factory begins producing pizzas normally
- _19:47_ - Incident resolved

## Response


After receiving a page at 19:34, Seth Remer came online at 19:35 UTC in Grafana and resolved the incident.

# Root cause

Note the final root cause of the incident, the thing identified that needs to change in order to prevent this class of incident from happening again.

A chaos test was initiated and caused the pizza factory to return 500 errors instead of jwt pizzas.

## Resolution


The issue was resolved by calling the report url provided by the pizza factory. The pizza factory began producing pizzas normally after the report url was called.
Slack integration will be installed to improve the response time by a minute or more.


# Prevention


We can better handle the error codes returned by the pizza factory so that in the case of a real failure, we can respond more quickly.


# Action items

1. Install slack integration to improve response time by a minute or more.
2. Better handle the error codes returned by the pizza factory so that in the case of a real failure, we can respond more quickly.

